About the job
This job is sourced from a job board. Learn More
Role Overview

Data Analyst will be part of a team that conducts regular and adhoc data projects
Data Analyst required to implement and maintain solutions including data sourcing, data transformation using SQL
Data Analyst will be communicating with client and end-user to determine purpose and end solution requirements
The role will also cover data extraction and data manipulation to fulfil client requirements, including adhoc requests, documentation, effective communication with external clients and internal stakeholders
Investigation, design, and implementation of improvements to existing processes
Ad-hoc queries relating to broad spectrum data and products 
Documenting and general maintenance of processes 
Combine raw data from multiple sources and explore ways to enhance data quality and reliability 
Prepare data for prescriptive and predictive modelling and collaborate with data scientists and architects on projects 
Identify and interpret trends and patterns 
Build data systems (ETLs) and pipelines with proper data governance in line with the overall organizational strategy 

Requirements

Qualification & Experience

National Diploma: Information Technology (IT – Software Development) 
BSC (Maths, Stats, Comp science) 
Solid experience in all Microsoft products (SQL, SSMS, Visual Studio, SSIS, VS code, Azure) 
Knowledge and experience in R and Python 
Ability to adapt to different programming tools based on project at hand 
Proficient in automation of processes and troubleshooting 
MCSE Certificate-Data Management and Analytics or Business Intelligence
 5-8 Years relevant experience 

Technical Skills

Experienced in SQL database design 
Understand the concepts, principles, and implementation of data modelling, design, governance, and data management 
Skilled at gathering, cleaning, enriching, and transforming data into the desired format to incorporate better decision-making in less time 
Understand the processes, roles, policies, standards, and metrics that ensure the effective and efficient use of data/information

Non-technical Skills

Analytical and problem-solving skills: Data analysts work with large amounts of data: facts, figures, and number crunching. You will need to see through the data and analyse it to find conclusions. 
Ability to work well in a team as well as individually 
Communication Skills - written and verbal: Data analysts are often called to present their findings or translate the data into an understandable document. You will need to write and speak clearly, easily communicating complex ideas. 
Ability to accurately estimate work required on tasks, prioritise work and deliver to deadlines. An analyst who has a natural inclination to work in a very structured way and to structure and prioritise activities carefully is more likely to succeed. 
Critical Thinking: Data analysts must look at the numbers, trends, and data and come to new conclusions based on the findings. 
Attention to detail and passionate about data. A methodical and logical approach. Data is precise. Data analysts must make sure they are vigilant in their analysis to come to correct conclusions. 
Excited about learning, pushing technical limits and finding new solutions 
Math Skills: Data analysts need math skills to estimate numerical data. 
Positive outlook on life, work, and other people 
Able to think creatively outside the box 
Create and deliver value to the greater team and company

Benefits

What we offer

Provident Fund, Life and Disability Insurance
Professional Development/Study Assistance
Training and Progression: There is a strong emphasis on skill development, career progression, and "care and growth"
Hybrid working arrangement
Office Perks: In-office benefits have included "wellness days" and monthly "Braai day" celebrations
Leave: 25-days annual leave entitlement
2-month paid sabbatical every 5 years of continued service
Employee Wellness Programme

About The Company

Lightstone is an intelligent solutions company with strong, industry-specific expertise and core capabilities in data management, GIS, analytics and software development.

We specialize in delivering integrated, online knowledge solutions, batch and realtime data quality solutions, and a broad range of geo-spatial and analytic projects to a range of property, business to consumer, government and financial services clients.

We hire exceptional people and provide them with the environment where they can excel. Our non-corporate culture encourages flexibility, collaboration and innovation.

We pride ourselves in our core values to Encourage Participation, Respond to Changing Needs and Win Together, which are reflected in each development, project, product or service we undertake to deliver.